# Analysis-of-Car-Sales-and-Economic-Trends
The following was a project done for a class that focuses on analyzing car sales and economic data. For this project, I was given a data set, 6 questions with multiple parts covering time series analysis and logistic regression, and I had 4 hours to complete these 6 questions. The questions were given to me, however all the code was written by me over the course of the 4 hour period. I was allowed to use notes and AI to complete the project. The project was completed as an R Markdown file. The code can be found in the file `Analysis of Car Sales and Economic Trends.Rmd` and the Markdown document can be found in the file `Analysis-of-Car-Sales-and-Economic-Trends.html`

## Data 
The data contains information about car sales during a period of several years along with various economic indicators. I was assigned specific variables to use and I was meant to use time-series analysis and logistic regression to make predictions about my assigned variables. The data itself was fairly clean, so I had to do minimal data cleansing and a little data exploration before starting my analysis. [Click here to download the dataset](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=download&id=1iSOaz-nHkM_YlyPY2KvjqyVl2A1c7X_H)

## ARMAX Model 
For the time-series portion of this project, I was tasked with creating a time-series forecast for Industrial Productivity. I also had to analyze if there was a relationship between my dependent variable, industrial productivity, and an independent variable, exports. In order to create an ARMAX model, I had to fully detrend both the dependent and independent variables, determine whether there was a relationship between the dependent and independent variable so that I could use the independent variable as an external regressor, and finally create a forecast. Using this process I was able to create a very strong forecast that closely predicted the validation data. A picture of the forecast can be found in the file `Industrial Productivity ARMAX forecast`. 

## Logistic Regression
For this portion of the project, I was given a binomial variable, Finished Goods, and asked to create a logistic regression model based on the values of 6 independent variables (USD, BCI, Unemp, Aluminum, and Industrial Productivity). I separated the data into training and validation data and then trained and tested the model. I analyzed the accuracy of the model in three ways. First, I compared the actual and predicted values and found that the model predicted the correct outcome for 4 out of the first 5 instances. However, as that is a small sample, I also created a lift chart and a decile-wise lift chart. The lift chart indicated that the model significantly increased the odds of a correct classification as opposed to random guessing. The decile-wise lift chart indicated that the model is nearly two times better at predicting the classification of sufficiency of finished goods for the top 10% of the cases as compared to guessing. The lift charts can be found in the file `Finished Goods Lift Charts`. 


